knowledge is frequency count met her
will did some algorithms and find out
how this method is useful for five to
ten complexity of algorithms this
algorithm is for finding sum of all the
elements in an ie here is an array
assume that there's an ally of so many
means I'm a piggelin array of size five
with some elements in it so what is n +
5 so it is this array and NS 5 what this
algorithm is to me it is finding is a
form of all the elements in an array let
us analyze the time taken by the cell
column so how do we do that by using
frequency count method so the time taken
by an algorithm can be known by
assigning one unit of time for each
statement and if any statement is
repeating for some number of times the
frequency of statement the frequency of
execution of that statement will
calculate and we find that time taken by
that Alberto so here we have some
statement this is a statement which is
repeating for some number of times so we
will find out its frequency and that
will give us the time taken by the cell
kata so let us see so this is a simple
statement so this takes one unit of time
and as the C language code follow by
habit on this a C language for in this
one we know of the still execute for one
time and this will repeat for any time
but this condition will be checked for n
plus 1 time how when n is 5 the first
time
I go zero is less than and when I is the
one one is less than n I used to tool is
less than n is a 3/3 those who lived an
N for those who less than fighters not
less than n so it will stop so I was
initially already zero so how many times
I has changed fight ends then how many
times condition is checked one two three
four five six times five plus one four
times it was true and fair time it was
false when it became five it was false
so it has stopped so this is executing
400 us one times so you say that if you
sum up this this is 2 n plus 2 but we
write n plus 1 so it means we are
bothered about this phenomena right we
have whatever only this one we don't
want to write about those things usually
it is written n plus 1 only but if you
observe it carefully it is true L plus
true but we don't want to write the time
taken by these two right as I said we'll
be doing it briefly then whatever the
statement is there inside this room I
ask this is repeating for n times this
is statement alone so we paid for at
times so this is n times so now we can
understand that whatever is written in
the loop like this type of loop the
statement legible for n times and the
loop itself if you take it will execute
for n plus 1 times then the last
statement it will make you for one time
then what's the time function f of n is
2 n plus 1 2 3 that's it this is the
time function now
what is the degree of that polynomial it
is a degree one it is just n so we say
order off and I am calling it as order
of I am NOT saying big or theta we will
learn it in some other video now for now
I will say order of n this complexity
see what are the variables used here it
is used and s and the size of is and
words and all these are just one one
word so total is how much n plus 3 so
that space complexity is s of NS n plus
now this polynomial is also degree n so
we say Otto space complexity we got it
as order of N and the time complexity is
also order now Nextel governments for
finding the sum of two matrices a and B
are square matrices of dimension n cross
n cross n for example it is 3 cross 3
then these mattresses or two-dimensional
arrays of size 3 by 3 dimensions are 3
where we assume that so n by n there and
wagon now here I have an algorithm for
finding the sum of two matrices let us
find out the time complexity for this
one for them already you know this will
take n plus 1 time now whatever is there
inside this loop will is u4 n times this
is and this is all
and two legs are two statements are they
each is taking and then what is this
again the Zulu so focus also and blessed
one then the game whatever is there
inside this one will execute for ten
times that's it
nor is the time taken by this one F of n
is and square and square 2 m squared
plus and this is the time function for
this what is the degree highest degree 2
so we don't write degree V night and
square or rough and square so we are
writing the degree we are not saying
that it is equal to this one we are
saying that degree of this polynomial is
n square that's all this is the time
complexity little state space complexity
what are the variables that is having a
we see the B and C I and I J what are
ABC they are matrices two dimensional
arrays and cross n and square and square
and square
what are an i J
they are scalar variables simple
variables one word one word one word
so space function is 3 and square plus 3
then
what is the degree and square so this
also and square space complexity is also
N squared so the time and the space
complexity of this algorithm is N
squared how to find the time complexity
I have shown it here how to find the
space complexity I have shown it here
so for few algorithms I'm going to be
showing for any other algorithm you can
find out this one by following this
approach next algorithm is
multiplication of two matrices you can
see that there are three loops nested
one inside another one inside another
let us find out the time on this side I
would write this would be little far
away so this side is right
so you can see them this is n plus 1
whatever is there inside will execute
for and dimes every statement and times
then again this a loop so this is n plus
1 whatever is there inside it will
execute for n times so into n into n 2
then again this loop so this is n plus 1
times whatever is there inside will
execute for n times again so as the
statement is inside all 3 loops so this
is going to execute 4nq times this is
inside just these two lose these two
so this is executing for n square and
these are mu step so that's n plus 1 and
this is n square and thank you if you
finally write down the time function f
of n will be equals to C thank you and
one more and q2 and u plus this is the N
squared and this is M square and this
one wooden square so three n square plus
this is one n + 2 n so 2 n plus 1 that's
it now you've got the degree of the
polynomial as Q so the time function is
order off and you order of n cube policy
space for this one space complexity for
this one video sorry a B and C is a b
and c and i j k and i'm g + k this is a
matrix so n square and square and square
and all these are 1 1 1 so this is
spaces 3 and squared plus 4 so this is
order of n square time is order of n
cube spaces or rough n square you can
have a look at this working
so that's it so I have shown you three
different algorithms taking different
amount of time one was water of N and N
squared and n cube next video you can
watch the different type of algorithms
and also the method how to analyze them